Objects can be passed into methods.
They can be returned from methods.
They can be basically used as we've done
with all of our primitive data types
already.
They're just a little bit more powerful.
They have more information inside of them,
okay?
So, we're gonna update
the area of the rooms.
We're gonna include a calculateArea()
method that accepts two rectangles.
And we're gonna also include a getRoom()
method that returns a rectangle object.
So you'll see how to pass objects,
how to return objects, okay?
I'm gonna make another class just so
that you have this basic example.
And then so inside of here,
let's just clone this one.
And we'll call this our redo,
HomeAreaCalculatorRedo, all right?
So, ooh, okay, good.
This one gets into static, so
everybody pay attention, okay?
All right, so let's go ahead and
make those two methods to start off with.
So we're gonna say public,
Rectangle is my return type.
And the name of the method is getRoom(),
takes no arguments, all right?
So in this I can go ahead and ask for
the length and the width.
So instead of me hard coding those values,
I can say,
"Enter the length of the room" and
then I wanna scan that in.
So remember when we talked about
with scanner or any object for
that matter if I wanna use
this in multiple places,
there needs to be a global variable.
So let's go ahead and define scanner here.
And this time I'm not
gonna make scanner static.
I'm gonna show you what that means,
all right?
So we'll make this private.
And I'm even gonna initialize it here,
Okay?
I need to import it, right?
Because it's from another package.
All right, so here into the length,
I'm gonna read it in, double length
= scanner.nextDouble().
Nope, nextDouble(), okay?
And then same thing for the width.
All right?
So, I read them both in.
Now, I wanna return a new object.
So, I can just say return new Rectangle().
I have the length and the width, I might
as well set them in the constructors.
What was the order again?
Hold on, Rectangle().
So notice that it shows me double
length and then double width.
So length and then width, okay?
So, that's a method that's
actually returning an object back.
And then we wanna create a calculate area.
So, let's say public,
I guess double calculateAreaOfRoom().
And this one will take two rooms,
two rectangles.
So Rectangle room1,
Rectangle room2, right?
So here, I can just do a return
room1.calculateArea() +,
I might not need this,
room2.calculateArea().
Yeah.
All right?
And then we need to call
it from the main method.
So I'm gonna erase everything
except that last print line.
In this, all right.
So we say Rectangle room1 is
going to be getRoom(), right?
We're gonna call it getRoom() method.
So notice, I'm trying to call getRoom().
I have an error that says,
Non-static method getRoom() cannot
be referenced from a static content.
So we talked about static a little bit,
right?
So when something is static,
this main method is static,
it means everything
that we've used here or
before here we've made static
because we haven't set up state,
we haven't called it into a constructor,
or anything like that.
Now, I'm in this class, I'm in the main
method, which has to be static.
I have no choice about that.
But I wanna call into
a method that's not static.
Well, in order to do that,
I have to create state,
I have to create an instance of
the class that this method lives within.
It just so happens this method
lives within the same class.
It does not matter, I still have to
instantiate this class in order to do it.
So to do so, I would have to say
HomeAreaCalculatorRedo, right?
And we can just call this calculator = and
I'm instantiating this class.
Notice I do not have a constructor
defined in this class but
one is I called into one just fine
because it's there by default.
So after I have this calculator
now I can use that object to
call non-static methods.
All right?
And this really does depend on things
that have to do with the class, right?
I'm using this scanner object,
which is a global variable.
I needed to have a presence of this room,
to have some sort of state set up,
all right?
So we have the first room.
We can say room2 =
calculator.getRoom() again.
So it'll be same method but
different values, right?
It'll prompt them again.
Okay?
And then I want to call that other method,
calculateAreaOfRoom(), so I can say double
totalArea = calculateAreaOfRoom().
Yeah, I use my object for
this class, calculateAreaOfRoom().
I have to give it two rectangles, so
I give it room1 and I give it room2.
And now I can get that value back.
Okay, let's run it.
So this is the first room, right?
Length, just say anything, okay?
And then the second room, And
then we got area of both rooms.
So, we did it the same thing
except we did it by using methods,
passing and returning objects, okay?
Is the static stuff clear?
Not really?
>> I'm still a little foggy on the why
we wouldn't make the getRoom() and
calculateAreaOfRoom() static and
then not have to instantiate a new class.
>> Which one?
What line number?
>> So if we commented out 10.
>> All right.
>> And then removed our references to
calculator and just called getRoom().
>> Yeah.
>> And then made those two methods static.
What's the difference there?
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, so
say I made this one static, right?
That would be fine.
The problem is with this being static,
now I don't have access to
the global variables in this class.
Because if we think about the class, how
we set it up, the data, the methods, all
of this, the object being all-encompassing
of everything that it needs.
Without an object,
I don't have an all-encompassing.
So the static is like, look,
I make something static if it
doesn't require using fields and
methods that are all connected
within this one objects class.
I can use a static method to
say something like, say for
example, I wanna know is this
a perfect square root or
something like that, right?
I don't really need access to anything
else other than those numbers.
So with static methods, you'll typically
see where they'll wanna receive some
data versus using data that
would be within a class, right?
So I could make a calculate area for
rectangle that allow people to
pass in the length and width.
I could make that static, and that way you
don't have to bother with instantiating
this class, having an object.
You could just say rectangle
dot calculate whatever, right?
Give it the information.
But in object-oriented programming,
the whole goal is to have the data,
have the methods all within this object
itself so you don't have to keep
referencing this data every time you
wanna use something in the class.
You set it up one time, and you can call
the behaviors as you wish without keep on
giving the data over and over.
So that's the benefit of not
having something static.
So you would use static when you don't
really care about having state and
everything associated with an object.
You could just say the class name dot the
method name and do whatever you wanna do.
>> And is this more because this
is an example that is called
HomeAreaCalculatorRedo?
Is it common that you'd be instantiating
the class inside of its own main function?
Or is that more because it's an example?
>> It's because it's an example, really.
Yeah, usually you wouldn't,
necessarily.
Well, it's because it's an example
with the main method and
that main method has to be static because
this is the first method that's called.
>> Yeah.
>> So there's no object set up or
anything.
Java just needs to be able to call
this method without state, right?
So that's why this method is static.
And so if you're gonna do something
inside of your main method, then yes,
you would have to instantiate
the class that you're in,
in order to be able to access these
things or make them static as well.
So that's why before we made everything
static, because we hadn't gotten
the objects yet, and instantiation,
and state, and all of that.
But yeah, in the real world, you're
not really doing things in the main.
There will be one class with the main that
kind of kicks that whole application off.
And then everything else, you're just
dealing with your own classes and
methods and you don't have to bother
with this sort of thing much.
>> Cool, that's more clear.
Thank you.
>> We should have used our bar here.
I'm gonna show you.
Remember we talked about bar?
I'm gonna leave it there since
that was our first time but
next time I'm gonna whip out bar.
All right, are we good?
So we understand passing and
returning objects within methods.
Yes.